
All right doc, you suggested I get this down on paper.  Could help with the 
headaches, the nightmares, the whole thing.  Fine.  Here goes. 

Reznov.

He was a hero.  He was my friend.  Or so he said.  

He told me the tale of his attempt to assassinate the German general 
Heinrich Amsel, the architect of Stalingrad's misery.  He hated that guy, 
hated the Germans for what they did to his home city.  He was one of 2 
survivors at a massacre near Stalingrad's most famous fountain, 
he and a man I never met named Dmitri Petrenko.  This Dmitri guy was murdered,
but Reznov would never go into details.  He told me he saw a lot of Dmitri in 
me, but I don't know what that means.  

His hand was injured in the battle.  He couldn't pull off an accurate shot 
with Mosin-Nagant.  So he gave the weapon to Dmitri.  Reznov would go into 
a trance when he told the story of how Dmitri went head-to-head with a German 
sniper.  Back & forth they went until Dmitri won the game and later took out 
General Amsel.  I rarely saw Reznov smile, but speaking of the death of this 
Amsel guy, Reznov would grin from ear to ear.  

I guess Dmitri was captured sometime later and Reznov went headlong into 
Seelow Heights looking for him.  The Battle of Berlin.  He really put that 
guy on a pedastal, would tell us all in Vorkuta we should follow the example 
of his departed friend Dmitri.  There was no mercy on the road to Berlin.  
The Soviets bathed in blood in Stalingrad and they were happy to pay it back 
in kind.  

They made it to the Reichstag. A private by the name of Chernov fought 
alongside him then.  Chernov was a diary kind of guy.  Stupid, if you ask me.
Dear diary is for 10 year old girls.  Yeah, so what does that make me?  
But it was Petrenko who planted the Soviet flag atop the Reichstag despite 
almost getting killed from a shot from a P-38 wielding German.  
He once told me that the heart of the Soviet army would never be broken so 
long as a men like Dmitri lived.  

Reznov never told me what happened between his heroic return to the Motherland 
and his getting tossed into Vorkuta.  It had something to do with Dragovich, 
who I assume is responsible for the murder of Dmitri, but he never told me.  
Not directly anyway.  But after everything that's happened and all that 
I've learned, just got to give it some thought is all.  

I used to think he saw something of Dmitri in me.  And that was why he chose 
me to help him incite the riot and escape from Vorkuta.  Now I know 
that's a lie.  He used me.  

He used me.  

He used me.  

He used me.

I can say it over and over again, but it doesn't change anything.  I believe 
deep down that Reznov was my friend.  I just don't know if I was programmed 
to believe that.  

There.  Happy?  Hope so, because my head is screaming right now.  Don't ask me 
to do this again.  If you do, I've got some choice words lined up for you.  


